# Sambar recipe

## Ingredients 
(1 cup = 240 ml)

###### For pressure cooking:

1 cup Arhar dal (toor dal or split pigeon peas) 2 cups Water

##### For tamarind extract:

1 tablespoon Tamarind

Instead you can use ready-made 2-3 teaspoons of tamarind paste

1⁄2 cup Water (Boiling hot)

###### For sambar recipe:

2 tablespoons Oil

1 teaspoon Mustard seeds

8-10 or 1⁄4 teaspoon Fenugreek seeds (methi dana)

1 teaspoon Cumin seeds

2 Dried red chilies

1 sprig or 8-10 Curry leaves

2 Green chilies slit

9-10 Shallots or 1⁄3 cup sliced onion

1⁄2 stick or 1⁄4 cup Drumstick cut into 1 inch pieces

1 or 1⁄4 cup Small baingan (baby eggplant) chopped

1⁄4 cup Tomato chopped

1⁄4 cup Carrot chopped

1⁄2 teaspoon Turmeric powder

2 tablespoons Sambar powder

Salt to taste

2 1⁄2 +1 1⁄2 cups Water or more or less as needed

1 tablespoons Cilantro or coriander leaves chopped finely for garnishing

## Instructions

#### Preparation:

1. First soak the tamarind in the warm water for 20-30 minutes.
2. After the soaking time, squeeze and extract the pulp. Strain the mixture.
3. If using seedless tamarind then you may not need to strain it. Keep it aside.

#### Pressure cooking the dal:

1. Wash the toor dal under running cold water till water runs clear.
2. Take washed dal into pressure cooker. Add water and cover with lid, put the weight on.
3. Let it cook for 5-6 whistles on medium heat. Let the pressure go down by itself.
4. Now open the cover and dal should be cooked completely.
5. Now using hand blender, mash/puree the dal. Keep it aside.

#### Making south Indian sambar spicing:

1. Heat the oil in a pan on medium heat.
2. Once hot add mustard seeds and let them pop.
3. Now add cumin seeds and methi seeds. Let them sizzle a bit.
4. Now add dried red chili and saute for 20-30 seconds.
5. Add green chilies and curry leaves.
6. Now add shallots. Mix and cook till they are translucent or light pink in color.
7. Now add all the veggies (tomato, carrot, drumstick, eggplant). Mix well and saute for 2-3 minutes.
8. Also add salt, turmeric powder and sambar powder. Stir well.
9. Add around 2 cups of water. Cover with the lid. Cook till the vegetables are soft and tender.
10. Now add mashed dal and add more water to adjust the consistency. Also add above prepared tamarind water
11. Mix well and let it simmer for 5-6 minutes.
12. Then turn off the stove
13. add coriander leaves and mix

https://www.spiceupthecurry.com/sambar-recipe-south-indian/

