# Flax Seeds and their benefits

Flax (Linum usitatissimum) seeds are a good source of and omega-3 fatty acids, including alpha-linolenic acid. Flaxseeds also contain phytoestrogens called lignans, which are similar to the hormone estrogen. Flaxseed is a good source of dietary fiber and contains many benefits for people of both sexes. You can eat them whole, ground, or as oil. Their mild, nutty flavor makes them easy to add to just about everything from smoothies to salads to baked goods.




**When taken by mouth**: Flaxseed is likely safe for most adults. Adding flaxseed to the diet might increase the number of bowel movements each day. It might also cause side effects such as bloating, gas, stomachache, and nausea

**Dosage:** 

Flaxseeds are available in two main forms: whole seeds and ground (often sold as flaxseed meal). While both offer nutritional value, most experts recommend opting for ground. That's because the crushed form is much easier for your body to digest, with more bioavailable nutrients. Whole seeds can actually pass through your system undigested, meaning your body can't access the omega-3 containing oil and you may miss out on much of the seeds' nutritional goodness.

Many of the health benefits in studies  were observed with just 1 tablespoon of ground flaxseed daily. Most experts agree that 1 to 2 tablespoons (7 to 14 g) of ground flaxseed daily is a healthy amount in a balanced diet to avoid [too much fiber](https://www.healthline.com/health/food-nutrition/too-much-fiber). Experts also recommend drinking plenty of water when you consume whole flaxseeds due to their high fiber content.


Benefits:
Reduces constipation, supports heart health, reduces cancer risk, reduces menopause symptoms, lowers diabetes risk


[<< Back to Navigation](../)

[<< Back to Navigation](./)